You can share an article by clicking on the share icons at the top right of it. 
The total or partial reproduction of an article, without the prior written authorization of Le Monde, is strictly forbidden. 
For more information, see our Terms and Conditions. 
For all authorization requests, contact syndication@lemonde.fr. 

https://www.lemonde.fr/en/opinion/article/2024/09/12/2024-us-election-harris-s-transformation_6725767_23.html

Saturday, September 14, 2024
7:06 am (Paris)

Go Back to the HomePage
Sign in
Sign in
Subscribe

Navigation
2024 US Elections
Biden drops out
Democrats behind Harris
Timeline of Biden's historic decision
OPINION
2024 US ELECTIONS
2024 US election: Kamala Harris's transformation
EDITORIAL
Le Monde

In the televised debate of September 10, the vice president gave Donald Trump a run for his money but failed to dispel the questions that hang over her presidential plans.Published on September 12, 2024, at 12:32 pm (Paris), updated on September 12, 2024, at 2:45 pm   2 min read 
Lire en français
Share
When it comes to Donald Trump, there are certain signs that can't be mistaken. By insisting, on September 11, that his debate with Kamala Harris the previous day had been "rigged," the former president effectively admitted that he had not exactly shone in the face of the solid performance given by the Democratic presidential candidate. The vice president's appearance had been eagerly awaited, and she didn't disappoint her camp.

Read more Subscribers only Harris, on offense, wins debate against Trump
After approaching her opponent in the opening moments of the debate to force him into a handshake he had not anticipated, she skilfully played on Trump's inflated ego to draw him into the pitfalls in which he has invariably become entangled, whether it be the quality of his campaign rallies or his fascination with dictators.

In doing so, Harris continued down the path to a spectacular political transformation. Joe Biden's decision to withdraw from the presidential race on July 21, after a disastrous debate with Trump, has in less than eight weeks transformed a somewhat fallible vice president, of mediocre popularity, into a candidate adored by the Democratic camp, capable of rallying huge crowds seduced by a pro-active, forward-looking discourse.

Read more Subscribers only Kamala Harris seeks to embody a reconciled and optimistic America
The September 10 debate also demonstrated, however, that this transformation is still incomplete. The rushed and highly unusual conditions of her nomination did not allow Harris to develop the carefully considered political plan, traditionally polished during primaries, that would give her candidacy its full weight. Her reluctance to answer questions – she has only granted one interview since the president stepped down from the race – leaves those about her objectives and the means to achieve them unanswered.

The undecided
First and foremost her responses to the issues voters are most concerned by – the economy, even if inflation is currently falling, and immigration, a challenge facing many Western governments – which are often deemed insufficient. Nor has Harris tackled another challenge head-on: that of linking her candidacy to the administration she has been part of for more than three and a half years, whose record has been harshly judged by American voters.

After a successful start to the campaign, a unifying nomination convention and a successful first debate, Harris needs to go further to maintain, and above all strengthen, the momentum behind her. A successful debate in September is no guarantee of success in November, as Hillary Clinton found out to her cost in 2016, and polling data confirms that the presidential race remains particularly uncertain in the key states.

Until now, the Democrat has played a virtuoso role in relieving her camp after the withdrawal of Biden, who was heading for an inevitable defeat due to his age and physical limitations. She now has to convince the few undecided voters, in a country deeply divided in two, that she is the person best equipped to respond to their concerns. She still needs to flesh out what a Harris presidency might look like.

Viewing this content may result in the use of cookies by the third-party operator hosting it. Because of the choices you have made regarding the use of cookies, we have blocked the display of this content. If you wish to access it, you must accept the "Third-party content" category of cookies by clicking on the button below.
Accept to view content
Le Monde
Translation of an original article published in French on lemonde.fr; the publisher may only be liable for the French version.

Reuse this content
Readers also enjoy


US presidential debate: 'Trump is not the same person he was in 2020 or 2016. He's more extreme, darker'

Brigitte Macron awarded damages from women who spread false claim she is transgender

Macron's long-serving finance minister bows out of French politics

Subscribers only Ethiopia, the first country in the world to ban the import of gasoline and diesel vehicles

Trump rules out holding another TV debate with Harris, claims ABC anchor looked at him 'with hatred in her eyes'

Subscribers only 'Tax-free tips, criticized in the US but welcomed in France'

Subscribers only New Neanderthal remains found in France, raising fresh questions on extinction

Subscribers only Harris, on offense, wins debate against Trump

Key takeaways from the Harris-Trump debate

Subscribers only Have France's conservatives got revenge?

Watch key moments from Harris-Trump debate

French mass rape trial adjourned to Monday as Dominique Pelicot ill

Japan scrambles jets as Russian aircraft circle country

Subscribers only Germany's major economic error is taking all of Europe down with it

Subscribers only French ex-PM Gabriel Attal visits Ukraine in search of his independence and his Odesa castles

Subscribers only Frenchman sentenced to three years in Azerbaijan prison for graffiti in Baku metro
Most read

1
Ethiopia, the first country in the world to ban the import of gasoline and diesel vehicles
2
2024 Paralympic Games: Investigation launched into the disappearance of three Congolese athletes
3
Looking for the mysterious photographer who snapped occupied Paris and mocked the Nazis
SECTIONS
International
French politics
France
Les Décodeurs
Sports
Environment
Science
Campus
Le Monde Africa
Pixels
Health
Obituaries
Archives
About Us
Le Monde Syndication
FRENCH FOCUS
Rugby World Cup 2023
Tour de France 2023
Paris Olympics 2024
Emmanuel Macron
OPINION
Editorials
Columns
Analysis
SUBSCRIPTION

Sign up 
Sign In
LE MONDE IN ENGLISH

Sign up to receive our daily selection of "Le Monde"
articles translated into English.
Sign up
LE MONDE LEGAL INFORMATIONS
Legal Information
Group Policy
Privacy Policy
Cookie Preferences
Terms & Conditions
FAQ
FOLLOW LE MONDE

Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Instagram
TikTok
Reddit
RSS feed