Skip links
Skip to Content
Navigation menu
News
Show more news sections
War on Gaza
US Election
Opinion
Sport
Video
More
Show more sections
Live
Click here to search
Sign up
Navigation menu
US Election 2024
Five takeaways from the debate
Who won the debate?
Debate fact-check
Did Trump lose the debate?
The stat that may swing the election
Do debates change voter preferences?
Is there a ’60-day rule’?
Putin’s history of ‘endorsements’

News
|
US Election 2024
Pope Francis tells US Catholics to choose ‘lesser evil’ in coming election
Without naming the two main US presidential candidates, the pontiff decried abortion and restrictions on immigration.

Pope Francis
Pope Francis has been outspoken about immigration policies he feels are 'not Christian' [Ludovic Marin/AFP]
Published On 13 Sep 2024
13 Sep 2024
Save articles to read later and create your own reading list.

Pope Francis has encouraged Catholics in the United States to vote in the November elections, saying they should “choose the lesser evil” while criticising both of the leading candidates.

In remarks on Friday while flying to Rome from Singapore, the pope named neither the Republican nor Democratic presidential nominees: former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris, respectively.

Keep reading
list of 3 items
list 1 of 3
Pope says democracy ‘not in good health’ as he warns against populists
list 2 of 3
Pope warns of AI dangers, urges fair wages for migrants on Singapore visit
list 3 of 3
‘I’m so happy’: Excitement in Indonesia ahead of Pope Francis’s visit
end of list
But he offered pointed criticisms of their platforms, saying refusing to welcome immigrants is a “grave” sin and abortion is akin to an “assassination”.

“Not voting is ugly,” Francis said. “It is not good. You must vote.”

“You must choose the lesser evil,” he added. “Who is the lesser evil? That lady or that gentleman? I don’t know. Everyone, in conscience, [has to] think and do this.”

Sign up for Al Jazeera
Americas Coverage Newsletter
US politics, Canada’s multiculturalism, South America’s geopolitical rise—we bring you the stories that matter.
E-mail address
Subscribe
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
protected by reCAPTCHA
Play Video
Video Duration 0 minutes 47 seconds
0:47
Now PlayingVideo Duration 00 minutes 47 seconds
00:47
Pope Francis visits Southeast Asia’s largest mosque
Pope Francis visits Southeast Asia’s largest mosque
NextVideo Duration 02 minutes 22 seconds
02:22
‘Light in any room’: Friends hail Aysenur Eygi, US citizen killed by Israel
‘Light in any room’: Friends hail Aysenur Eygi, US citizen killed by Israel
Video Duration 02 minutes 53 seconds
02:53
Australia anti-war protest: Activists clash with police outside military expo
Australia anti-war protest: Activists clash with police outside military expo
Video Duration 02 minutes 35 seconds
02:35
Argentina’s economy in crisis, soup kitchens struggle after government spending cuts
Argentina’s economy in crisis, soup kitchens struggle after government spending cuts
Video Duration 01 minutes 50 seconds
01:50
Palestinian resilience: Owner reopens gym after it was hit by airstrike
Palestinian resilience: Owner reopens gym after it was hit by airstrike
The 87-year-old pontiff made the comments as the US presidential election is entering its final weeks, with voting scheduled for November 5. While conservative on social issues like abortion, Francis has been one of the foremost critics of rich countries embracing increasingly restrictive immigration policies.

“Whether it is the one who is chasing away migrants or the one who kills children,” the pope said, “both are against life.”

The US is home to about 52 million Catholics, a conservative-leaning constituency that is well-represented in several key swing states, such as Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.

Polling by the Pew Research Center indicated that about 52 percent of US Catholics identify with or lean towards the Republican Party, compared with about 44 percent for the Democratic Party. But the centre noted that the Catholics, in the past, have been “closely divided”.

Play Video
Video Duration 27 minutes 30 seconds
27:30
In his comments on Friday, which came after a 12-day tour across Southeast Asia and Oceania, Francis also lamented the lack of progress towards a peace deal to bring Israel’s war in Gaza to a close.

“Forgive me for saying so, but I don’t see any progress being made towards peace,” he told reporters on board the papal plane, adding that an Israeli strike on a school this week that killed Palestinian children was “ugly”.

Source: Al Jazeera and news agencies
listen to these podcasts
podcast episode artwork
play
From: The Inside Story Podcast
Why are people angry about the Paris Olympics opening ceremony?
Extravagant but controversial. A scene in the opening ceremony of the Paris Olympics has angered many for appearing to moc...
podcast episode artwork
play
From: The Inside Story Podcast
What are the 'red lines' keeping Russia and NATO from confrontation?
Both Moscow and NATO have so-called 'red lines' that could trigger outright war between them if crossed. The conflict in U...
podcast episode artwork
play
From: The Take
Ralph Nader’s take on the US 2024 election
Arguably the most famous third-party candidate in United States election history, Ralph Nader ran for president four times...
Related
From: NewsFeed
‘We are brothers’: Pope Francis visits Southeast Asia’s largest mosque
Pope Francis visited Indonesia’s Istiqlal mosque, the largest in Southeast Asia, during his 12-day tour of the region.

Video Duration 00 minutes 47 seconds
00:47
Published On 5 Sep 2024
5 Sep 2024

Video Duration 00 minutes 47 seconds
00:47
OPINIONOPINION,
Why does the Christian West ignore Palestinian Christians’ plight?
Israel may well wipe out Christian presence in Gaza as part of its genocide, and Western leaders would not care less.

Opinion by Daoud Kuttab
Daoud Kuttab
Published On 25 Dec 2023
25 Dec 2023
Archbishop Alexios of Tiberias visits Saint Porphyrius Orthodox church in Gaza City, which was severely damaged in an Israeli airstrike on Thursday. At least 18 people were killed [Abdelhakim Abu Riash/Al Jazeera]
Photos: East Timor turns out in force for mass with Pope Francis
The Vatican says some 600,000 people have attended Pope Francis’s mass, nearly half the country’s population.

Published On 10 Sep 2024
10 Sep 2024
Pope mass draws 600,000 in Catholic-majority East Timor
This gallery article has undefined image
More from News
Israel pounds Gaza, killing 19 as 1st phase of polio vaccine campaign ends
Palestinians work to rescue a child from under the rubble following an Israeli strike, amid the Israel-Hamas conflict, in Nuseirat in the central Gaza Strip, September 12, 2024 [Hatem Hani/Reuters]
Biden slams Trump for attacks on Haitian Americans: ‘This has to stop’
President Joe Biden forcefully rejected Donald Trump&#039;s attacks on Haitian Americans [File: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters]
Brazil top court unfreezes bank accounts of X, Starlink after $3m transfer
Brazilian Supreme Court Chief Justice Alexandre de Moraes arrives for a court hearing in Brasilia, Brazil, on June 22, 2023 [Eraldo Peres/AP Photo]
US accuses RT of ‘covert’ intelligence activities, issues fresh sanctions
&#039;Our most powerful antidote to Russia&rsquo;s lies is the truth,&#039; US Secretary of State Antony Blinken says [File: Leon Neal/Pool via Reuters]
Most popular
US hints at allowing Ukraine to strike deep inside Russia, enraging Putin
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken shakes hands with President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy as UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy looks on, during the Fourth Crimea Platform Leaders Summit on September 11, 2024 in Kyiv, Ukraine. [Leon Neal/Pool via Reuters]
Could Marxist Anura Dissanayake become Sri Lanka’s next president?
Anura Kumara Dissanayake, leader of opposition political party National People&#039;s Power, gestures towards media as he arrives to file nomination for the upcoming presidential election in Colombo, Sri Lanka, Thursday, August 15, 2024 [Eranga Jayawardena/AP Photo]
Why are Storm Shadow missiles a new flashpoint between Putin and the West?
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Britain&#039;s Foreign Secretary David Lammy meet with Ukraine&#039;s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy at the Mariinsky Palace in Kyiv, Ukraine on Wednesday, September 11, 2024 [Mark Schiefelbein/AP]
All to know about the India vs Pakistan Asian Champions Trophy hockey match
Hockey fans hold Indian and Pakistan flags as they cheer for their teams at a match in Chandigarh, India on October 6, 2004. India and Pakistan will face off in their last match of the round-robin stage at the Asian Champions Trophy 2024 in Hulunbuir, China [File: Ajay Verma AH/Reuters]
AL JAZEERA PODCASTS
podcast episode artwork
Al Jazeera News Updates
DRC attempted coup trial, Nigeria floods

start listening
follow


About
About Us
Code of Ethics
Terms and Conditions
EU/EEA Regulatory Notice
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Cookie Preferences
Sitemap
Work for us
Connect
Contact Us
User Accounts Help
Advertise with us
Apps
Newsletters
Channel Finder
TV Schedule
Podcasts
Submit a Tip
Our Channels
Al Jazeera Arabic
Al Jazeera English
Al Jazeera Investigative Unit
Al Jazeera Mubasher
Al Jazeera Documentary
Al Jazeera Balkans
AJ+
Our Network
Al Jazeera Centre for Studies
Al Jazeera Media Institute
Learn Arabic
Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights
Al Jazeera Forum
Al Jazeera Hotel Partners
Follow Al Jazeera English:

Al Jazeera Media Network logo
© 2024 Al Jazeera Media Network

You rely on Al Jazeera for truth and transparencyWe use cookies and other tracking technologies to deliver and personalize content and ads, enable features, measure site performance, and enable social media sharing. You can choose to customize your preferences.Learn more about our Cookie Policy.
Cookie preferences
Allow all
  