Skip to content



Register

Sign In
Home
News
Sport
Business
Innovation
Culture
Travel
Earth
Video
Live
Trump-Harris debate sums up policy-light US election
2 days ago

Share
Sarah Smith
North America editor


1:00
Harris and Trump's first debate explained in 60 seconds
Kamala Harris entered Tuesday’s night’s presidential debate with a clear plan: dominate and destabilise Donald Trump.
It started with her opening power move, when she strode across the compact stage in Philadelphia to demand a handshake. This was her seizing the initiative, and a telling sign that America’s surprise presidential candidate was keen to exert control on an opponent who has a track record of dominating these kind of stages.
In the hours since this blockbuster showdown, political pundits and networks have dedicated much time to praising and analysing Harris’s approach. Her poking and her prodding of Trump. Her mocking, derisory laughter as she ribbed him with personal attacks and then watched as he lost his cool and pushed back angrily.
The scale and tone of this coverage is largely due to the fact her strategy was successful. The few instant polls we saw after the debate indicated a resounding victory for Harris. And while the history of US elections shows this does not always translate to a victory in November, it was surprising to see Harris take on Trump in this aggressive way.
But, however successful this approach was, it is ultimately surface-level stuff. It is body language and facial expressions and sharp ripostes.
Before this event, polls consistently suggested voters wanted to know more about where Harris stood on the key issues. Her campaign so far has been light, even vague, on hard policy. And while Trump is more well-established, voters are surely still keen to know what he would do in real terms if elected again.
So, did the debate tell us much about what either of them would do in office? Not particularly.
Harris did come with prepared soundbites explaining her economic proposals that she has outlined before – a $6,000 child tax credit for infants, a $50,000 tax cut for small businesses and $25,000 to help first time home buyers find a deposit. She argued that Trump’s proposed tariffs on imported goods would cause higher prices for consumers.
These are all things we have heard several times previously from the campaign.


2:00
Watch highlights from Trump-Harris clash
Harris did not give an answer when quizzed on why the Biden administration, which she has served in for almost four years, has kept in place a number of tariffs introduced by Trump. Nor did she describe how she would try to tackle inflation which consistently polls as a top concern for many voters.
But Trump’s attempt to capitalise on this clear and obvious weakness for Harris (he described his rival’s economic policies as Marxist) got lost as he veered into an answer about illegal migrants, saying “bad immigration” is the worst thing that can happen to the economy.
This exchange was illustrative of the night as a whole. There was no shortage of heat in this ill-tempered debate, but both sides shone very little light on policy.
Banner
More debate coverage
GLOBAL REACTION: What the world thought
FACT-CHECK: Key claims from both sides examined
ANALYSIS: Harris puts Trump on the defensive
VOTER REACTION: Undecided Americans impressed by Harris
Banner
The Trump campaign is eager to paint Harris as a radical left-winger by reminding voters that she has previously said she would ban fracking, nationalise health insurance and decriminalise illegal border crossings.
Asked directly why so many of her policy positions have changed, Harris said she would discuss every point raised – but in reality explained only why she voted for new fracking leases to reduce dependence on foreign oil. Once again, a flustered Trump failed to capitalise on her policy flip flops being raised directly.
These were easy opportunities to sell himself as consistent on policy in comparison. He could have rammed home his positions on the key issues as well as tout policy achievements from his first term. Instead, viewers saw the former president on the defensive, distracted by barbs from Harris which he could have chosen to ignore.
It was immigration that he returned to again and again. His signature issue which he believes is more salient now than ever. Yet, even on such comfortable ground. he could not describe how he would go about trying to deport millions of illegal migrants. There was more familiar noise but still little in the way of hard proposals.
This debate was the first chance voters had to see the two candidates going head to head. They could compare demeanour, temperament and body language. But crucially they didn’t get much to compare on their plans for government.
One moment on Tuesday night felt particularly indicative of this.
For nine years, Trump has been saying he wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act (also known as Obamacare) but had to admit that he has not produced a plan for what could replace it. “I have the concepts of a plan” was his response.
And after the 90-minute primetime showdown, voters were likely only left with “the concepts” of what either of these candidates would do if elected to the White House.
Kamala Harris
US election 2024
Donald Trump
US politics
United States
Related
How Harris campaign is engaging with Swifties
3 hrs ago
US & Canada
Pope urges Catholics to pick 'lesser evil' between Trump and Harris
7 hrs ago
US & Canada
US election polls: Who is ahead - Harris or Trump?
12 hrs ago
US & Canada
More
4 hrs ago
A Storm shadow missile stands against the backdrop of some grey clouds with people wandering around looking at it from the opposite side of the camera.,
What are Storm Shadow missiles and why are they crucial for Ukraine?
Western states have long been cautious about allowing Ukraine to use their missiles against Russia.

World
6 hrs ago
A composite image featuring Mike Jeffries, a man with blond hair and wearing a suit, against a backdrop of a storefront with the Abercrombie & Fitch logo.
'I tried to say no repeatedly': More men accuse ex-Abercrombie boss over sex events
New witnesses tell the BBC fresh details about the sophisticated operation they say exploited them for sex.

US & Canada
7 hrs ago
Laura Loomer
Laura Loomer: Who is conspiracy theorist travelling with Trump?
She joined Trump at an event on Wednesday, and travelled to the presidential debate the day before on his plane.

US & Canada
7 hrs ago
Trump speaking in LA
Trump vows mass deportations from town rocked by 'pet-eating' lies
Trump says Springfield in Ohio has been "destroyed" and repeats baseless claim that migrants are eating pets.

US & Canada
8 hrs ago
Ray Dalio
Billionaire investor warns of threat to democracy
Ray Dalio says he thinks the probability of civil war in the US is "low but cannot be dismissed".

Business
Home
News
Sport
Business
Innovation
Culture
Travel
Earth
Video
Live
Audio
Weather
BBC Shop
BBC in other languages
Follow BBC on:






Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
Contact technical support
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

 
