Skip to content
Sky News - back to homesky news logo
14 Sept
cloudy
19°
11°
Watch Live
Home
UK
Politics
World
Israel-Hamas War
US
Climate
Science & Tech
Business
Ents & Arts
More
US election latest: Trump gives requirements for second Harris debate - as Pope criticises both as 'against life'
Donald Trump has held a press conference in Kamala Harris's home state of California, while the vice president headed to a key battleground. Meanwhile, Pope Francis has criticised both candidates and urged voters to choose the "lesser evil".

Saturday 14 September 2024 03:35, UK

Donald Trump
Kamala Harris
US election 2024

Why you can trust Sky News
Key points
Here's what you need to know from this week  View post
Trump speaks in California  View post|Harris holds rally in Pennsylvania  View post
Pope urges voters to choose the 'lesser evil'  View post
Harris uses first post-debate interview to talk economy and gun control  View post
Trump suggests second debate with Harris could happen  View post
Watch:NASA astronauts will vote from space  View post
Listen to the Daily above and tap here to follow wherever you get your podcasts
Election in depth
Who is ahead in the polls?  View post
Mark Stone: Trump's pets conspiracy is fantasy world stuff   View post
Explained: The seven swing states in this election  View post
Sort by:
LatestSort by latest OldestSort by oldest
2h ago
08:09
We're pausing our coverage - here's a round-up of the week
That's all our live coverage of the US election for now - we'll be back on Monday with all the latest updates. 

From AI cat memes, unfounded claims of immigrants eating pets in Ohio and a presidential debate, there's a lot that has happened this week. 

Here's a quick recap of what's happened: 

The presidential debate 

The biggest event took place on Tuesday, when Donald Trump and Kamala Harris went head-to-head for the first time in a televised debate. 

Since then, the polls have been in favour of Ms Harris, with the consensus suggesting she performed better than her Republican rival. 

Her campaign said she raised more than $47m (£35.8m) in the 24 hours after the debate. 

The pair clashed over abortion with Mr Trump saying babies had been "executed" under certain state laws and Ms Harris saying his view was "insulting to women". Moderators were forced to step in and fact check the former president.

In another memorable moment, Ms Harris invited voters to go to a Trump rally to see people leave early due to "exhaustion and boredom" -  Mr Trump, clearly riled, hit back by saying "people don't go to her rallies". 

A moment that shaped the rest of the week came when Mr Trump spouted baseless claims about Haitian migrants eating cats and dogs in Springfield, Ohio. 

Moderators were forced to intervene again to point out there had been no police reports filed to back him up. 

You can watch a round up of the debate below  - or read about it here. 


Biden in a 'Trump 2024' hat 

Immediately after the debate ended, singer Taylor Swift announced her endorsement of Ms Harris - a huge boost to the Democratic nominee's campaign. 

The following day, both Ms Harris and Mr Trump attended several 9/11 memorial events, shaking hands and meeting local emergency services. 

During one of the events, US President Joe Biden caused a stir after being photographed wearing a "Trump 2024" hat. 

The White House later said he had donned the cap as a sign of "bipartisan unity".


Trump rules out another debate

As Mr Trump continued to push his claims about pet-eating immigrants by posting AI images of cats urging people to vote for him, the governor of Ohio was forced to intervene, saying there was "no credible evidence" to back up his claims. 

It was also a topic brought up by Democratic vice presidential candidate Tim Walz during a campaign rally, where he called Mr Trump "weird". 

Despite this, Mr Trump continued to claim a "monumental victory" over his opponent in the debate, ruling out the possibility of another one. 

Meanwhile, Ms Harris used a campaign rally in North Carolina to tell voters they were owed a second debate. 

But, by the end of the week, Mr Trump suggested he could be persuaded to take part in one if he's in the "right mood". 

We'll be back with any major updates over the weekend, and will resume our regular coverage on Monday. 

Reuters 
Reuters


Copy link
3h ago
07:00
Ben & Jerry's co-founders unveil ice cream inspired by viral Harris meme
The co-founders of Ben & Jerry's have unveiled an ice cream inspired by a viral Kamala Harris meme. 

The ice cream, which is called "Kamala's Coconut Jubilee", gets its name from a clip of Ms Harris in 2023 when she mentioned a coconut tree. 

While swearing in the president's Advisory Commission on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity for Hispanics, she said: "You think you just fell out of a coconut tree? You exist in the context of all in which you live and what came before you."

The clip went viral on social media, with people remixing it to dance tracks and using coconut images on videos of the vice president. 

The ice cream has been created in partnership with a public policy advocacy group called MoveOn, which has launched a "Scoop the Vote" campaign.

The organisation will be serving the sweet treat in battleground states in the hope of improving voter turnout. 



Copy link
4h ago
06:31
In pictures: Crowds go wild for Harris in swing state
Earlier this evening, Kamala Harris held a campaign rally in the swing state of Pennsylvania. 

The Democratic presidential nominee walked on stage in Wilkes Barre, waving to a lively crowd before heading to the podium and beginning her speech. 

She spoke about her debate against Donald Trump earlier this week, her plans for the economy and reproductive rights (you can read more about that in our 23.23 post).

Here are some photos from the rally...





Pics: Reuters
Pics: Reuters


Copy link
4h ago
06:02
The Obamas and the Clintons to hit Harris campaign trail
Former Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton are preparing to lend their political star power to Kamala Harris's campaign in the final stretch of the election, our US partner site NBC News has reported. 

Former first lady Michelle Obama and former secretary of state Hillary Clinton will also take part in events, it added. 

The Obamas addresed the Democratic National Convention last month
The Obamas addresed the Democratic National Convention last month
Reuters

Four sources familiar with their plans said the group felt "energised" by their roles in the Democratic National Convention last month and have offered to help the Harris team in any way. 

Mr Obama is expected to headline a fundraiser for Ms Harris in Los Angeles next Friday and then hold larger campaign events next month. 

Meanwhile, Ms Obama will focus on encouraging voter registration and turnout. 

Both the Obamas and the Clintons have been in frequent touch with Ms Harris since she took over the top of the ticket. 

Ms Clinton offered debate strategy and perspective ahead of the vice president's showdown with Donald Trump in Philadelphia this week. 


Copy link
5h ago
05:19
Harris uses first post-debate interview to talk economy and gun control
As we reported earlier, Kamala Harris has done her first post-debate interview today, sitting down with Philadelphia's ABC affiliate WPVI. 

The vice president used the opportunity to discuss her policy proposals on the economy and gun control. 

She reiterated her plans to expand child tax credits and expand tax deductions for small business startup expenses. 

Reuters
Reuters

"When I talk about building an opportunity economy, it is very much with the mind of investing in the ambitions and aspirations and the incredible work ethic of the American people, and creating opportunity for people, for example, to start a small business," she said. 

When asked about her views on gun issues, Ms Harris reiterated that she and her running mate Tim Walz are gun owners (you can read more about this in our 21.46 post). 

"We're not taking anybody's guns away," she said, adding that she supports "reasonable gun safety laws". 

"I have personally seen what assault weapons do to the human body, and so I feel very strongly that it is consistent with the Second Amendment and your right to own a gun to also say we need an assault weapons ban," she said. 

"They're literally tools of war."


Copy link
6h ago
04:38
Trump visit to Springfield would be 'very difficult', says mayor
A visit to Springfield by Donald Trump would be "very difficult", the town's mayor has said. 

Rob Rue told our US partner NBC News: "I would say... we need help and not hate. And we need calm voices. 

"We need people to understand that Springfield -  we have many community citizens that care about a community, and we work collaboratively together to solve problems." 

The town is embroiled in tension as Mr Trump and his allies have spread lies about Haitian migrants eating pets. 

Earlier today, the former president said that he was considering a visit to the town.

When asked what he would say to Mr Trump if he visited, Mr Rue said he was not sure if he would have the chance to meet with the Republican presidential nominee.


Copy link
6h ago
04:08
'We've got some business to handle' - Harris holds campaign rally in swing state
Kamala Harris has arrived at her campaign rally in Pennsylvania. 

The swing state made headlines in July after Donald Trump survived an assassination attempt while holding a rally there. 

The economy is a top issue in the Keystone state, with grocery prices rising faster than in anywhere else in the US.

The Democratic candidate takes the stage in Wilkes Barre to Beyonce's Freedom, as usual, waving to crowds as she heads to the podium. 


"Okay, we've got some business to handle," she tells her supporters, who are cheering and chanting "Kamala". 

Ms Harris starts by talking about her presidential debate against Donald Trump earlier this week. 

She says her Republican rival put on "the same old show" and had "no plan" for the country.

"Well folks, it is time to turn the page. We are ready for a new generation of leadership that is optimistic about what we can do together," she adds. 

She focuses on her economic policies, paying particular attention to small business owners and lowering the cost of living.

She says "more than 100 million Americans will get a tax cut" under her plans.

Pics: AP
Pics: AP

As she turns to her plans for reproductive freedoms, the lively crowd cheers and claps loudly. 

"This isn't 2016 or 2020, the stakes are even higher than they were then," she adds. 

"Imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails. Imagine what that might mean.

"Someone who suggests we should terminate the constitution of the United States of America should never again stand behind the seal of the president of the United States," she adds. 

The crowd is roaring as she asks them if they are ready to "fight for freedom" before she ends her speech, smiling and waving. 


Copy link
7h ago
03:36
In pictures: Harris arrives in Pennsylvania
Kamala Harris has arrived in Pennsylvania ahead of her campaign rally later. 

The Democratic nominee disembarked from Air Force Two in Avoca and will now head to Wilkes-Barre for the event. 

The rally is expected to begin at around 11.30pm UK time.



Pics: Reuters
Pics: Reuters


Copy link
7h ago
03:09
Trump could debate Harris again if he's in 'the right mood'
A day after posting on social media that he would not take part in another presidential debate, Donald Trump has left the door open to another round with Kamala Harris. 

"I did great with the debates, and I think they've answered everything, but maybe if I got in the right mood, I don't know." he said when asked by a reporter about what it would take for him to agree to another debate.

"I wouldn't need anything. I could do it tomorrow, but I've done two debates," he added, referring to his previous debate against Joe Biden earlier in the election cycle. 

Speaking at a rally in North Carolina yesterday, Ms Harris said she believed the voters were owed another debate because "what is at stake could not be more important". 


Copy link
7h ago
02:49
Watch: NASA astronauts will vote from space
Some of us will have wondered what to do if we're busy working or on holiday for election day, but what do you do if you aren't even on the planet?

Two NASA astronauts are currently asking that exact question...

Suni Williams and Butch Wilmore are living in the International Space Station and their return to Earth has been delayed. 

But, they said they have sent down their requests for a ballot. 

Mr Wilmore said: "As a matter of fact, they should get it to us in a couple of weeks.

"It's a very important role that we all play as citizens, and NASA makes it very easy for us to do that."

You can watch their interview below...



Copy link
8h ago
02:31
White House source reveals details about Harris's gun after debate mention
Kamala Harris surprised a lot of people during the presidential debate, especially when she reminded voters that she was a gun owner.

Now, a White House source has revealed more information about her weapon of choice.

They said the Democratic nominee owns a handgun for personal safety reasons, and it is stored away in a secure location at her California home. 

Kamala Harris
Kamala Harris
Reuters

The source declined to identify the make of gun. 

During the debate on Tuesday, Ms Harris made the comment about owning a gun after Donald Trump claimed she was going to ban guns if she was elected. 

"This business about taking everyone's guns away - Tim Walz and I are both gun owners. We're not taking anybody's guns away, so stop with the continuous lying about this stuff," Ms Harris said, referring to her running mate.

In 2019, Ms Harris told reporters: "I am a gun owner, and I own a gun for probably the reason a lot of people do - for personal safety. I was a career prosecutor."


Copy link
8h ago
02:08
White House press secretary slams 'vitriolic' claims about pet-eating immigrants
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre has joined Joe Biden in criticising unfounded claims of Haitian immigrants eating pets in Springfield, Ohio.

It comes after Donald Trump made debunked claims during his head-to-head debate with election rival Kamala Harris that migrants "are eating the pets".

In a news conference at The White House, Ms Jean-Pierre said there was "absolutely no place" for the "vitriolic, smearing, hateful language". 

She said the president, along with vice president Ms Harris, would "continue to call that out and condemn that type of vitriolic behaviour". 

Karine Jean-Pierre
Karine Jean-Pierre
Reuters

Ms Jean-Pierre, who is Haitian-American, also said the White House "wants to do more" to ensure safety in Springfield and assist with the migrant crisis.

Earlier today, Mr Biden hit out at Mr Trump over the claims, saying: "There's no place for it in America. This has to stop, what he's [Trump] doing has to stop."

You can read more about that in our 18.03 post. 


Copy link
9h ago
01:44
Harris to take part in interview and host live stream with Oprah Winfrey
Kamala Harris is to participate in an interview with an ABC News outlet, her presidential campaign has said. 

The vice president will speak to the news outlet's affiliate in Philadelphia and the interview will be aired later today, campaign officials said. 

She will also join talk show host Oprah Winfrey for a livestream event next week. 

Winfrey has endorsed the Harris-Walz ticket for the election and appeared at the Democratic National Convention last month.

It comes after Ms Harris has faced criticism from some - including the left-leaning New York Times editorial board -to  make herself more available to the media.

So far, Harris has done only one national television interview since she took President Joe Biden’s place at the top of the Democratic ticket — a joint appearance on CNN with her running mate, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz.


Copy link
9h ago
01:17
Explained: Who is ahead in the polls?
The presidential election on 5 November is set to be the tightest race since at least 2000.

Kamala Harris currently holds a slender lead over Donald Trump, according to the latest polls.


But the US election is not all about who wins the most votes overall, it's about who wins in the right states.

If we add up the votes in "safe" states that the candidates probably don't need to worry about so much, Harris is on 225 electoral college votes and Trump on 219, in their race to 270.

Of the 94 votes left in the eight crucial swing states where the races are tight, Harris needs 45 to win the presidency and Trump needs 51.

Harris is currently leading in a majority of those.


We’ve mostly spoken about the polls so far, but there’s another often overlooked way to gauge the potential outcome of the election - by looking at where people are putting their money.

Betting markets, unlike polls, are driven by people willing to back their predictions with real money. This means they reflect not just today’s opinions but also the collective wisdom of people who are invested in the outcome about how things might change going forward.

Sky News is tracking the odds of Kamala Harris and Donald Trump winning the 2024 election. We've translated the odds into percentages to reflect the implied probability of each candidate's victory.



Copy link
10h ago
00:44
How much are people paying to attend a Trump fundraiser?
We've heard from Donald Trump at his golf club in Rancho Palos Verdes, and now he will be heading to a campaign fundraiser in Woodside.

The event is being hosted by billionaire software developer Tom Siebel and his wife, Stacey Siebel.

Mr Siebel is the second cousin once removed of Jennifer Siebel Newsom -  the wife of Democratic California Governor Gavin Newsom. 

Attendees will pay at least $3,300 per person or raise $10,000 for the campaign, according to an invitation. 

Top-tier donors will get a photo, reception and roundtable, paying $500,000 for a couple to be on the host committee or $150,000 per person to be a co-host.

It's Mr Trump's second fundraising stop in California in as many days as he tries to make up fundraising ground against Kamala Harris.

Even before she raked in cash after the debate, the vice president reported raising $361m in August from nearly three million donors. 

Mr Trump brought in $130m over the same period.


Copy link
10h ago
00:07
Loomer is a 'free spirit' and there'll be 'large deportations' from Springfield | Trump Q&A
Donald Trump is now taking questions from reporters at his news conference 

Asked about his conspiracy-peddling supporter Laura Loomer, he says he will take a look at her recent comments. 

"She's a free spirit," Mr Trump adds.  

Senior Republicans - including the governor of North Carolina - have called on her to stop her "crazy" conspiracy theories as they are harming Mr Trump's campaign.


Moving to immigration, he promises "large deportations" of "Venezuelans" from Springfield, Ohio. 

During his debate with Kamala Harris earlier this week, the former president repeated debunked claims that Haitian immigrants in the city were "eating the pets of the people that live there". 

"Illegal aliens are now coming in from all over the world, from prisons, jails, mental institutions," he said today. 

"They’re coming in at levels that we’ve never seen before. We cannot let this happen to our country."

Trump taking questions near his Los Angeles golf course
Trump taking questions near his Los Angeles golf course
Reuters


Copy link
10h ago
23:51
Pope Francis criticises Harris and Trump
Pope Francis has criticised Donald Trump and Kamala Harris for some of their policy ideas. 

Speaking to reporters on a flight to Rome from Singapore, he spoke about the former president's plan to deport millions of immigrants.

He said migration was a right described in Scripture, and that anyone who does not follow the Biblical call to welcome the stranger is committing a "grave sin".

He took aim at Ms Harris's reproductive rights policies, likening having an abortion to an "assassination". 

"To have an abortion is to kill a human being. You may like the word or not, but it's killing," he said. "We have to see this clearly."

Reuters
Reuters

He said Catholics would have to "choose the lesser evil" when they vote in November. 

"One should vote, and choose the lesser evil," he said. "Who is the lesser evil, the woman or man? I don't know.

"Everyone in their conscience should think and do it.

"Both are against life, be it the one who kicks out migrants or the one who (supports) killing babies," he added. "Both are against life."

He also stressed that he is not an American and would not be voting.

The Pope has made the plight of migrants a priority of his pontificate and speaks out emphatically and frequently about it.

While strongly upholding church teaching forbidding abortion, he hasn't emphasised church doctrine as much as his predecessors.

It is not the first time Francis has weighed in on a US election. In the run-up to the 2016 election, Francis was asked about Mr Trump's plan to build a wall at the US-Mexican border.

He declared then that anyone who builds a wall to keep out migrants "is not Christian".


Copy link
11h ago
23:24
Trump uses California news conference to criticise 'comrade Kamala' on crime and immigration
Donald Trump begins his news conference by expressing sympathy for those caught up by landslides in Rancho Palos Verdes - where his golf course is located. 

He says he has a simple message - to urge the American people not to allow "comrade Kamala" from "destroying" other states as she has her own. 

"California is a mess," Mr Trump says.

He repeats claims that Ms Harris is part of a group of "radical left lunatics" who are desperate to bring the country towards communism. 

He references Ms Harris's time as district attorney in The Golden State, saying she refused to seek the death penalty for the murderer of police officer Isaac Espinoza among several other "failures" he reads out from a list. 

He then moves on to immigration before claiming once again that he was victorious in the recent head-to-head debate with Ms Harris.

Mr Trump then describes himself as "the border president", adding: "I'm going to show you what a border security job we can do." 

It's a textbook Donald Trump rant - scathing in his attacks on his opponent but often repeating them, getting sidetracked and going off-topic.

Pic: AP
Pic: AP


Copy link
11h ago
23:09
Trump speaking in California
Donald Trump is now speaking at his golf course on the outskirts of Los Angeles, California. 

We'll bring you all the key lines right here in this blog - but you can also watch by hitting the livestream at the top of the page.

Pic: AP
Pic: AP


Copy link
11h ago
22:48
'This has to stop': Biden criticises Trump over Springfield comments
Joe Biden has hit out at Donald Trump over his comments on immigrant communities in places like Springfield, Ohio.

Speaking at the White House at an event to celebrate The Center for Black Excellence and Culture, the president said it was "simply wrong" that Haitian-Americans - including his own press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre - were having to be subjected to these "attacks".

He was referring to comments from Mr Trump (and other senior Republican figures) suggesting that Haitian immigrants in Springfield were "eating the pets" belonging to the townspeople. 

"There's no place for it in America. This has to stop, what he's [Trump] doing has to stop," Mr Biden said. 

Pic: Reuters
Pic: Reuters


Copy link
Load More
Powered by Live center

Sky News footer
YouTube
Facebook
X
TikTok
Instagram
LinkedIn
WhatsApp
About Sky News
About Us
Sky News Profiles
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Sky News Board
Sky News Services
Sky News RSS
Sky News For Your Phone
Sky News Radio
Sky Channels
Sky Witness
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Cinema
Sky Sports
More Sky Sites
NOW
Sky Zero
Sky Academy Studios
Bigger Picture
Sky Group
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us
Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies
Privacy Options
Accessibility
Contact Us
Sky.com Homepage
© 2024 Sky UK